# fusion-iso-post V1.0
## Autodesk Fusion Post Processor for Biesse Rover and Multi CNC machines


### Warning

This code is for noncommercial study and simulation only. Use of the output of this post processor to operated a CNC machine is prohibited. Each Biesse CNC machine model is different, and any post processor must be adapted and correctly licensed for safe use on a specific CNC machine. 

### License

Copyright 2026 cnc-axis

This code is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International
license, with the following additions. By exercising the Licensed Rights in the above license, you accept and 
agree to be bound by the terms and conditions both in that license and in the Additional Terms below.

To view a copy of the CC-BY-NC-ND license, visit https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/

Additional terms:

1. You agree that the output of this post processor will not be used to operate a CNC machine.
2. You agree that the licensor will in no event by liable to you or any third party for any loss, damage or injury, including
any damage to a physical or virtual CNC machine, workpiece, CNC machine warranty arising from the 
use of this post processor. 

### Features

- Generates ISO files for simulation in BSolid.
- Supports simultaneous 5-axis, 3+2 axis, and 3-axis machining on Biesse CNC machines compatible with the ISO format (such as Rover and Multi models).
- Supports the vertical drill block.
- Supports Manual NC commands.
- Options for controlling vacuum table, dust extractor, workpiece positioning, panel lifting bars and compressed air blower.

### Known Limitations

- This code was developed against a mid-2020s Biesse Rover A, but has not been validated for this machine or other Biesse machines. The Rover A had an infinitely rotating C axis, and unwinding of limited-range (eg. -270 to +270 degree) C axes is not supported.
- The horizontal drill block and drilling cycles using the main spindle are not supported.
- B axis is hardcoded to -100 to +100 degree range.
- Metric operations only.
- Sawing operations are not supported.
- Drilling operations are hardcoded to retract by 50mm inbetween each drilling operation.
- The post processor does not generate a [UTENSILI] (tool list). Therefore, the simulator is not able to check in advance for the presence of all tools required by the program. Instead, an error for a missing tool will be occur when the simulator reaches a section of the program which requests the missing tool.

### Use

- Do not run ISO files generated by this post processor on a physical CNC machine or allow anyone else to do so. Doing so violates the license and risks damage to the machine.
- **Co-ordinates** - In Fusion, position the WCS (world co-ordinate system) triad at the 'back left bottom corner' of the stock with the 'Z' axis pointing 'up' and the 'Y' axis pointing towards the back of the machine. (Not 'Z'=down and 'Y'='towards front of machine' like on the physical machine). 
- The post processor will compensate for this and the ISO file will be usable at any origin supported by the machine.
- **Dust extractor** - To avoid risk of collisions, always set the extractor position to 1 (top).
- **Tools** - Put the name of the milling cutter in the 'Product ID' field in the Fusion tools library. Put the numeric ID of drill bits in the drillblock into the 'Tool Number' field.
- Do not use this post processor with a machine definition set in Fusion.
